In Japan, religious rituals are associated with each stage of life and with each season
of the year.
As Jehovah's Witnesses, we want to keep the cleanliness and unity of the congregation.
In this regard, one of the most delicate areas is the decision on whether to attend a non-witness
funeral or not.
The first thing we must consider regarding funerals is not to be involved in religious rituals
or the acts of worship that are condemned by the Bible.
In harmony with the Principle at the 2nd Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 14, we need
to keep completely separate from pagan acts of worship.
Next, even if we don't participate in the worship of other religions, we need to consider
if our decisions could stumble someone in the congregation.
When we consider the Bible Principle in Luke chapter 17, verse 2, we do not want our decisions
to hinder the faith of someone in the congregation.
The third point to think about is our conscience.
We need to seriously think about the Bible Principle in Galatians chapter 6, verse 5, where
it says that each must carry his own load.
This Bible Principle also applies when elders want to support others.
Of course, those in the congregation can ask the elders for support in issues related
to funerals.
However, in matters of conscience, elders cannot force decisions on others.
So it would be wrong to make some kind of rule regarding attending non-witness funerals.
If each person can make decisions based on Bible Principles, we can have a truly peaceful
and free atmosphere, where each individual's differing situation is respected.
This would really contribute to the unity of the congregation, and all can maintain
a clean conscience and serve happily before Jehovah.
In my culture, specifically the Namibian or Shihuahambok culture, like in many African
cultures, there are many artistic customs related to weddings that are included in
wedding celebrations.
Unfortunately, my family is not in the truth.
So obviously for Ben and I, that was one of the main concerns.
They don't understand our worship of Jehovah, and they don't understand that we apply
Bible Principles and not a tradition of men.
We got engaged before the pandemic, but obviously now that our wedding was to be over video
conferencing, it meant that we didn't have control over many things.
We tried to imagine situations that could stumble our brothers or disrupt the unity in
the congregation.
We had to, in advance, think of Bible Principles that would apply in our case, but particularly
what we also found helpful was speaking to a mature elder.
He gave us a principle in Proverbs 14 verse 15.
He told us to be very careful when people say, I will do this or I won't do this at
your wedding.
Basically, it was up to us to make sure that the proceedings or things that happen at
our wedding would be in order and in harmony with Bible Principles.
Another principle that came to mind was 1 Corinthians 10 verse 23.
So obviously we knew that we had the right to do many things, but we were also very conscious
of how our brothers would view our wedding.
We didn't want anybody to be at our wedding and feel embarrassed or even stumble to be
there.
Now looking back at our wedding, we look back with fond memories.
So a buying Bible principle doesn't restrict our fun.
Also it contributed to the unity among our brothers because all of us, those present,
those who were invited, we were able to enjoy the wedding.
You're not worried about, oh, did that thing offend anybody?
So you're able to enjoy the day without any bad memories.